# **Object storage**
Object consist of:
- Data: image, video, text document
- Metadata: information about what the data is
- Key: unique identifier

💡 When you modify a file in block storage, only the pieces that are changed are updated. When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated.

## **Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)**
	
-  Pros and cons:
	- ✅ unlimited storage
	-  💡 the maximum file size for an object is 5 TB.
	-  💡 write once/ read many
	-  ✅ 99.999999999% durability
	- 💡 When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated.
 - provides object-level storage.
 - stores data as objects in buckets
 - you can set permissions to control visibility and access to a file
 - you can  use the Amazon S3 versioning feature to track changes to your objects over time
 - cases:
	 -  store backup files
	 -  media files for a website
	 -  archived documents.
### Classes
To choose a class think about:
- How often you want to retrieve your data
- How available you need your data to be

Classes:
- Standard: HA, the most expensive
	- When use it:
		- for frequently accessed data
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
	- Use cases:
		- such as websites
		- content distribution
		- data analytics
- Standard-Infrequent Access: HA,  has a lower storage price and higher retrieval price compare with Standard. 
	- When use it:
		- for infrequently accessed data
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones.
- One Zone-Infrequent Access:  has a lower storage price than Amazon S3 Standard-IA
	- Stores data in a single Availability Zone
	- When use it:
		- You want to save costs on storage.
		- You can easily reproduce your data in the event of an Availability Zone failure.
- Intelligent-Tiering : automatically moves files with frequent access to Standard storage, and  opposite files moves to Standard-Infrequent Access.
	- When use it:
		-  Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns
		- Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object.
- Glasier Instant Retrieval
	- When use it:
		-  for archived data that requires immediate access
	-  Retrieving time: few milliseconds
- Glasier Flexible Retrieval:
	- When use it
		- for archive data when retrieving time hors is comfortable. 
	- Low-cost storage designed for data archiving
	- Retrieving time : from  a few minutes to hours
- Glasier Deep Archive
	- - When use it
		- for archive data when retrieving time is comfortable. 
	- Lowest-cost object storage class ideal for archiving
	- Retrieving time: from 12 hours to 48 hours.
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
- Outposts
	- When use it:
		- for workloads with local data residency requirements that must satisfy demanding performance needs by keeping data close to on-premises applications.
	- Makes it easier to retrieve, store, and access data on AWS Outposts
## References
1. [https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/134/play/85854/aws-cloud-practitioner-essentials](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/134/play/85854/aws-cloud-practitioner-essentials) Module 5
2. [**Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
3. 