# AWS Amazon S3 classes
To choose a class think about:
- How often you want to retrieve your data
- How available you need your data to be

Classes:
- Standard: HA, the most expensive
	- When use it:
		- for frequently accessed data
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
	- Use cases:
		- such as websites
		- content distribution
		- data analytics
		- cloud applications
		- dynamic websites
		- mobile and gaming applications
		- big data analytics.
- Standard-Infrequent Access: HA,  has a lower storage price and higher retrieval price compare with Standard. 
	- -  high durability, high throughput, and low latency of S3 Standard
	-  with a low per-GB storage price and per-GB retrieval fee
	- When use it:
		- for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed
		- for infrequently accessed data
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones.
	- cases:
		-  long-term backups, disaster recovery files, and so on.
- One Zone-Infrequent Access:  has a lower storage price than Amazon S3 Standard-IA
	- Stores data in a single Availability Zone
	- less expensive than S3 Standard-IA.
	- When use it:
		- You want to save costs on storage.
		- You can easily reproduce your data in the event of an Availability Zone failure.
		- storing secondary backup copies of on-premises data or easily recreatable data.
- Intelligent-Tiering : automatically moves files with frequent access to Standard storage, and  opposite files moves to Standard-Infrequent Access.
	- When use it:
		-  Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns
		- Stores objects in three tiers: a frequent access tier, an infrequent access tier, and an archive instance access tier.
		- monitors access patterns of your data and automatically moves your data to the most cost-effective storage tier based on frequency of access.
		- Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object.
- Glasier Instant Retrieval
	- When use it:
		-  for archived data that requires immediate access
		- for archiving data that is rarely accessed and requires millisecond retrieval.
	-  Retrieving time: few milliseconds
- Glasier Flexible Retrieval:
	- offers low-cost storage for archived data that is accessed 1–2 times per year.
	- When use it
		- for archive data when retrieving time hors is comfortable. 
		-  for backup, disaster recovery, offsite data storage needs, and for when some data occasionally must be retrieved in minutes.
	- Low-cost storage designed for data archiving
	- Retrieving time : from  a few minutes to hours
- Glasier Deep Archive
	-  is the lowest-cost Amazon S3 storage class.
	- - When use it
		- for archive data when retrieving time is comfortable. 
	- Lowest-cost object storage class ideal for archiving
	- Retrieving time: from 12 hours to 48 hours.
	- Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
- Outposts
	- delivers object storage to your on-premises AWS Outposts environment using S3 API's and features.
	- When use it:
		- for workloads with local data residency requirements that must satisfy demanding performance needs by keeping data close to on-premises applications.
	- Makes it easier to retrieve, store, and access data on AWS Outposts
## References
1. [https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/134/play/85854/aws-cloud-practitioner-essentials](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/134/play/85854/aws-cloud-practitioner-essentials) Module 5
2. [**Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)**(opens in a new tab)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
3.  https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/external/view/elearning/1851/aws-technical-essentials?da=sec&sec=prep Module 4
4. AWS website: [Amazon S3 Storage Classes](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/)
