# OS Scheduler
## Thread states
- waiting. For example, waiting for disk, network, the os system calls or synchronization calls (atomic, mutexes).
- runnable. Thread is ready to execute and waits for time on a core.
- executing.  A core executed the thread's instructions. 

## Types of thread's work
- CPU-Bound. This work never creates a situation when the thread will be in wait status, because thread constantly calculate something.  For example, calculating Pi in the Nth digit.
- IO-Bound.  This work causes thread to enter into "waiting" status.  For example, operations with disk, network, the os system calls or synchronization calls (atomic, mutexes)
## Scheduler behaviour on Linux, Mac or Windows
- the scheduler is unpredictable when it comes to what Threads will be chosen to run at any given time
-  You must control the synchronization and orchestration of Threads if you need determinism in your application.
-  A context switch happens when the scheduler pulls an Executing thread off a core and replaces it with a Runnable Thread. The Thread that was pulled can move back into a Runnable state (if it still has the ability to run), or into a Waiting state (if was replaced because of an IO-Bound type of request).
- Context switch is expensive operation between [~1000 and ~1500 nanoseconds](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2018/measuring-context-switching-and-memory-overheads-for-linux-threads/).
- In cases where a program is focused on IO-Bound work, then context switches are going to be an advantage.
- In cases where a program is focused on  CPU-Bound work, then context switches are going to be a performance nightmare.
## Cache lines
- Accessing data from main memory: ~100 to ~300 clock cycles
- Accessing data from caches: ~3 to ~40 clock cycles
[cache-coherency problem](https://youtu.be/WDIkqP4JbkE)  introduces problems like false sharing and if cache value is dirty increases latency because cores must change the dirty cache value. 

## References
1. https://www.ardanlabs.com/blog/2018/08/scheduling-in-go-part1.html
2. 