
## Single Responsibility Principle

A piece of code should have only one reason to change.

The code that has SRP has the fewest reason to change. 

- Every package should has single responsibility and high cohesion
- Low coupling between packages
- Don't use package names like: common, utils, private e.t.c. Package should have 1 responsibility with name that reflect this responsibility.   

## Opened/Closed Principle
A piece of code should  be open for extension and closed to modification. 
- compose simple types into more complex ones using embedding.

Example: Go’s types, while being _open for extension_, are _closed for modification_.

Code example from [2](#references)
```go
package main

type Cat struct {
        Name string
}

func (c Cat) Legs() int { return 4 }

func (c Cat) PrintLegs() {
        fmt.Printf("I have %d legs\n", c.Legs())
}

type OctoCat struct {
        Cat
}

func (o OctoCat) Legs() int { return 5 }

func main() {
        var octo OctoCat
        fmt.Println(octo.Legs()) // 5
        octo.PrintLegs()         // I have 4 legs
}
```
`Cat` has no knowledge of the type it has been embedded into, so its method set cannot be altered by embedding.

## Liskov Substitution Principle
Two types are substitutable if they exhibit behaviour such that the caller is unable to tell the difference.

- express the dependencies between your packages in terms of interfaces, not concrete types
- use  small interfaces , prevailing idiom is an interface contains only a single method
## Interface Segregation Principle

Clients should not be forced to depend on methods they do not use.

- Require only what you need. For example,  use io.Writer instead of io.ReadWriteCloser if you need to do only write operations. 

## Dependency Inversion Principle
High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules. Both should depend on abstractions.  
Abstractions should not depend on details. Details should depend on abstractions. [1](#references)

-  import graph must be acyclic
-  push the responsibility for the specifics, as high as possible up the import graph, to your `main` package or top level handler, leaving the lower level code to deal with abstractions–interfaces.
- 
## References
1. https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/0135974445/
2. https://dave.cheney.net/2016/08/20/solid-go-design